
1.  CMMI <2018>
   > **C**apability **M**aturity **M**odel **I**ntegration is a process improvement approach that provides organizations with the essential elements of effective processes.
   >
   > The capability levels of the CMMI are:
   > 
   > Incomplete、Performed、Managed、Defined、Quantitatively managed、Optimizing



20.SWOT analysis

Analyzing Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats


#Some predictive SDLC models:The waterfall life cycle、 The spiral life cycle、 The  incremental build life cycle ......



24.Tracking Gantt Chart

A gantt chart that compares planned and actual project schedule information.The planned schedule dates for activities are called the **baseline dates**, and the entire approved planned schedule is called the **schedule baseline**.

25.Decomposition

Subdividing project deliverables into smaller pieces.

26.Scrum图相关（去年已出）

Product backlog（产品订单）、Sprint backlog（冲刺订单）、Potentially shippable product increment（潜在可交付产品增量）、（Burndown Chart 燃尽图）

27.Organizational culture

A set of shared assumptions,values,and behaviors that characterize the functioning of an organization.


⭐35.Resource Loading 

The amount of individual resources that an existing schedule requires during specific time periods.

⭐36.ISO 9000

A quality system standard developed by the ISO, is a thee-part, continuous cycle of planning, controlling, and documenting quality in an organization.



### The framework for defining and assigning work:

- Finalizing the project requirements.
- Defining how the work will be accomplished.
- Breaking down the work into manageable elements.
- Assigning work responsibilities.


### Three basic reasons for creating dependencies among project activities

- **Mandatory dependencies** （强制依赖）are inherent in the nature of the work beinf performed on a project.(hard logic)
- **Discretionary dependencies** （任意性依赖）are defined by the project team.(soft logic)
- **External dependencies** （外部依赖）involve relationships between project and non-project activities.



### Methods for Selecting Projects

- Focusing on broad organizational needs
- Categorizing IT projects
- Performing net present value or other financial analyses
- Using a weighted score model
- Implementing a balanced scorecard



### Approaches to Developing WBS

- Using guidelines
- The analogy approach
- The top-down approach
- The bottom-up approach
- The mind-mapping approach



### Categorizing IT Projects

- **Problems** are undesirable situations that prevent an organization from achieving its goals.
- **Opportunities** are chances to improve the organization.
- **Directives** are new requirements imposed by management, government, or some external influence.

### Communication Methods

- Interactive communication: Two or more people interact to exchange information via meetings, phone calls, or video conferencing.
- **Push Communication**: Information is sent or pushed to recipients without their request via ... This method ensures that the information is distributed, but does not ensure that it was received or understood.
- **Pull Communication**: Information is sent to recipients at their request via ...



### Four basic response strategies for negative risks

- **Risk avoidance**: eliminating a specific threat, usually by eliminating its causes.
- **Risk acceptance**: accepting the consequences if a risk occurs.
- **Risk transference**: shifting the consequence of a risk and responsibility for its management to a third party.
- **Risk mitigation**:（减轻，缓和）reducing the impact of a risk event by reducing the probability of its occurrence.


### Four basic response strategies for positive risks

- **Risk exploitation**: doing whatever you can to make sure the positive risk happens.
- **Risk sharing**: allocating ownership of the risk to another party.
- **Risk enhancement**: changing the size of the opportunity by identifying and maxmizing key drivers of the positive risk.
- **Risk acceptance**: applies to positive risks when the project team does not take any actions toward a risk.

### Motivation Theories

- **Intrinsic motivation** : causes people to participate in an activity for their own enjoyment.
- **Extrinsic motivation** : causes people to do something for a reward ot to avoid a penalty.



### Three-sphere model for systems management

Business、Organization、Technology



### Modern Quality Management

- Requires customer satisfaction
- Prefers prevention to inspection
- Recognizes management responsibility for quality




### PTA（采购管理）

PTA = （**ceiling price-target price)/government share + target cost**


### ⭐几种合约对买方和卖方的风险：

#### 按顺序买方风险从高到低、卖方风险从低到高：

CPPC、CPFF、CPIF、CPAF、FPI、FP-EPA、FFP


### Gantt Chart(书本P214英文版)

- The black diamond represents a milestone.
- The thick black bars with arrows at the beginning and end represent summary tasks.
- The light gray horizontal bars for Tasks... represent the duration of each individual task.
- Arrows connecting these symbols show relationships or dependencies between tasks.


### Tracking Gantt Chart（书本P216英文版）

- The top horizontal bars represents the planned or baseline duration for each task. The bar below it represents the actual duration.
- A white diamond represents a slipped milestone. A slipped milestone means the milestone activity was actually completed later than originally planned.
- Percentages to the right of the horizontal bars display the percentage of work completed for each task.




### Identify stakeholders

- **Internal stakeholders** : Project sponsor,project team, support staff, internal customers for the project. Other internal stakeholders include top management, other functional managers, and other project managers because organizations have limited resources.
- **External stakeholders** : Project's customers(if they are external to the organization), competitors, suppliers, and other external groups such as government officials and concerned citizens.




### MBTI(Myer-Briggs Type Indicator)

- Extrovert（外向）/Introvert（内向）(E/I)
- Sensation/Intuition（直觉力）(S/N)
- Thinking/Feeling(T/F)
- Judgment/Perception（感知，洞察力）(J/P)



### ⭐Social Styles Profile

#### Based on their assertiveness（魄力，自信） and responsiveness（敏感性，灵敏度）

- Drivers are proactive（积极主动的） and task-oriented
- Expressives are proactive and people-oriented
- Analyticals are reactive（回应的） and task-oriented
- Amiables are reactive and people-oriented



### ⭐DISC Profile

- 左上方：Compliance（顺从，服从）（Blue） It
- 左下方：Steadiness（稳重，踏实）（Green） You
- 右上方：Dominance（支配，控制）（Red） I
- 右下方：Influence（支配力，控制力）（Yellow） We

#### People in opposite quadrants, such as Dominance and Steadiness or Influence and Compliance, can have problem understanding each other.



### ⭐Human Resource:Power

**Power** is the ability to influence behavior to get people to do things they would not otherwise do.

- **Coercive power** （强制权力） involves using punishment, threats, or other negative approaches to get people to do things they do not want to do.
- **Legitimate power** （合法权力）is getting people to do things based on a position of authority.
- **Expert power** involves using personal knowledge and expertise to get people to change their behavior.
- **Reward power** involves using incentives（激励） to induce（诱使） people to do things.
- **Referent power** （参照性权力）is based on a person's own charisma.（感召力，个人魅力）



### Covey and Improving Effectiveness

- Be proactive
- Begin with the end in mind
- Put first things first
- Think win/win
- Seek first to understand, then to be understood
- Synergize（统合综效）
- Sharpen the saw（不断更新）



### ⭐The five major cost categories related to quality

- **Prevention cost**: The cost of planning and executing a project so that it is error-free or within an acceptable error range.
- **Appraisal cost**: （鉴定成本，评估成本）The cost of evaluating processes and their outputs to ensure that a project is error-free or within an acceptable error range.
- **Internal failure cost**: A cost incurred to correct an identified defect before the customer receives the product.
- **External failure cost**: A cost that relates to all errors not detected and corrected before delivery to the customer.
- **Measurement and test equipment**: The capital cost of equipment used to perform prevention and appraisal activities.


### The cost of quality

The cost of conformance（一致，适应） plus the cost of nonconformance.

**Conformance** means delivering products that meet requirements and fitness for use.

**The cost of nonconformance** means taking responsibility for failures or not meeting quality expectations.



### Herzberg’s Motivation-Hygiene Theory赫茨伯格的激励--保健因素理论

他把影响工作满意的因素称为激励因素，把导致不满的因素称为保健因素。“保健”一词用于这些因素被认为只是用来避免产生不满，而又并不能提供满意感的维持因素。

### McGregor’s Theory X and Theory Y麦格雷戈的X理论和Y理论

- 信奉X理论的人认为，员工不喜欢并且设法逃避工作，为了使员工充分发挥工作效果来完成目标，经理必须进行强制监督、威胁并制定多种控制制度。他们认为他们认为普通的员工宁愿接受指挥而不愿承担责任，缺乏上进心，安于现状。
- 信奉Y理论的人则认为，人非天生懒惰和不喜欢工作，只是有时候需要放松和休息。最重要的奖励应是如马斯洛所说的，满足他们的尊重和自我实现需求。
- 麦格雷戈强烈建议经理在Y理论的指导下制定激励员工计划。

### Thamhain and Wilemon’s Influence and Power塞姆海恩和威利蒙的影响力和权力理论

塞姆海恩和威利蒙通过调查项目经理处理员工关系的方法，以及这些方法与项目成功之间的关系，找到了9种项目经理可用的影响基础。

- Authority
- Assignment
- Budget
- Promotion
- Money
- Penalty
- Work challenge
- Expertise
- Friendship



### Tools and techniques for managing project teams

- Observation and conversation
- Project performance appraisals
- Interpersonal skills
- Conflict management
